# Introduction to Web Development: Course Overview

## Structure of the Course

### Units
The course is broken into five major sections each with several units (see outline below). Each unit is made up of lessons of differing length. The pacing guide and the section specific teacher's guides give time estimates for each of the units. 
 
### Learning Targets
Each unit has several learning targets that are outlined in the teacher's guide.

### Lessons 
Lessons can be approached in several different ways and it is up to the discretion of the teacher to decide how to deliver the material. The course can be teacher lead or student lead. Students should be able to work through the material using the resources in the course as well as external resources linked from the course materials.

### Documentation 
Each lesson has a documentation section. This can be done in a physical notebook or an online document such as a google doc. Checking documentation is a good formative assessment for students. 

### Assignments
Each unit has assignments at the end. These are meant as summative assessments to demonstrate student learning. 

### Portfolio Projects
By the end of each major section students will have several new items that serve as portfolio projects. These can be used to show industry relevant skills students have learned. In addition these provide summative assessments teachers can use in grading students.

### Major Section Exams
Sample exams are given for each major section. These are meant as a quick assessment for student learning and can be used as is, or modified to fit individual classes.

## Course Outline
### Unit 1:
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
### Unit 2:
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
### Unit 3:
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
### Unit 4:
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
### Unit 5:
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
