# Unit 1: Introduction to Web Design

## 1.1 Simple Sample (1 hour)
This is the starting point for our exploration of HTML. Use this file to get a basic understanding of HTML. Discuss the difference between source code (the raw HTML) and the rendered page (the page as seen in the browser). 
Students should type the sample.html file into Visual Studio Code. They should open the saved file with Google Chrome or another web browser. 
Students that finish early should explore on their own by making modifications and seeing what happens. 


## 1.2 Getting Started with HTML (5 Hours)
### Learning Targets:
* Students know what a markup language is.
* Students know what tags are
* Students understand HTML tag syntax 
* Students can author a basic HTML page

### What is a “markup language”
Review this section with students. Students should begin a vocabulary list. Vocabulary throughout the course will be shown in **bold** type. 

Student documentation will include 3 observations about HTML as well as guesses about what different HTML tags do.

### HTML Tags
Students will learn about HTML tags. Emphasize the starting and ending tags.

Student documentation will be completing a HTML Cheat Sheet in Google Docs. They can copy the form from the instructional materials and research tags at [W3Schools HTML Reference](https://www.w3schools.com/tags/default.asp).


### Parts of an HTML document
Students should understand that an HTML document has parts that contain other parts. This is referred to as either a nested structure or a branching structure.

Student documentation will be a diagram (made on paper or in an online document) that shows the structure of an HTML document.

### Tour of sample.html
This video is a supplemental explanation of the simple.html file. 

### Assignments
1. Modify the sample.html file
    * Students should turn in a file with different text, title and headings.
2. Debug exercises
    * debug_ex01.html -- Missing \<!DOCTYPE html\> tag
    * debug_ex02.html -- Missing <\a> and <\p> tags
    * debug_ex03.html -- Missing <\head> tag
3. Create "about the author" page with the following elements:
    * Title
    * Heading
    * Image
    * Biography

## 1.3 Lists and Tables
### Learning Targets
* Students can identify ordered and unordered lists.
* Students can create new HTML files.
* Students can use HTML to create ordered and unordered lists.
* Students can identify parts of a table including rows, columns. data, and headers.
* Students can use HTML to create a table.
* Students can view HTML files using a web browser.

### Lists
Discuss ordered and unordered lists. 

Student documentation will be a new file called *list.html*. Check to see that they are using the correct tags for an HTML file. See the resource folder for a sample *list.html* file.

### Tables
Discuss with students the different parts of a table. 

Student documentation will be a new file called *table.html* that shows a table they have authored. Check to see that they are using the correct tags for an HTML file. See the resource folder for a sample *table.html* file. 

## 1.4 Attributes, Empty Elements, and Forms
