# Unit 2: Cascading Style Sheets (CSS)

## 2.1 Style

### CSS Example
In this section students will apply styles to the simple HTML file we used in the last unit. Work through the styling as a class or have students work through at their own pace.

Student documentation should include the sample HTML file with styling. The styling used in this example is *internal* styling. This will be explored more in the next section. 

Example:
```html
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html>
  <head>
    <title>Style</title>
    <style>
    body{
      background-color: gray;
    }
    p {
      font-family: Arial;
      border: solid;
      background-color: lightgreen;
    }
    h1 {
      font-family: Arial;
      color: navy;
    }
    </style>
  </head>
  <body>
    <h1>Styling HTML with CSS</h1>
    <p>
        This is the paragraph section that we will learn to style first.
    </p>
  </body>
</html>
```

### The CSS Language
Focus on the vocabulary: **selector, declaration, property, value**.
Students should create a copy of the CSS Cheat Sheet and research new properties at [W3Schools CSS Reference](https://www.w3schools.com/cssref/default.asp).

Documentation for this section will be the CSS cheat sheet. 

### Internal, External, and Inline Styling
Inline:
```html
    <h1 style="font-family:Arial">Styling HTML with CSS</h1>
```

Documentation for this section will be the creation of an external style sheet for the sample HTML file. Students should investigate what happens when they include an external style sheet, internal styling and inline styling in one page. They should see that external styles are overridden by internal styles which are overridden by inline styles. 

### Text Styling
Students should be able to tell the difference in a serif, sans-serif and monospace font. Students should explore the different resources linked to in the lesson. 

Students will document their learning by styling one webpage with 3 different font combinations and recording their impressions of each. 

### CSS Selectors
#### Universal Selector
#### Class Selector
#### ID Selector


### Assignments
1. Students will style the webpages they created in the last unit. 
    1. Create a new folder with copies of the webpages from Unit 1. They should keep the original webpages as artifacts of their work.
    2. Style "About Me" with inline styling. Styling for this page should be inside each tag.
    3. Style "Favorite Animal" using internal styling.
    4. Style "Forms Cheat Sheet" with external style sheet.

## 2.2 Color
### Color on the Computer
In this lesson students learn to represent colors as numbers. Color on a computer is represented by the numbers 0-255 controlling the amount of red, green and blue light coming from each pixel. Students will explore this then learn about hexadecimal representation of color.
### Color Palettes
Students will create color palettes using online tools. 
### Apply a Palette
Students will learn to use the color palettes they have created as CSS.
### Assignments
Students will apply the color palette CSS files to their previous HTML files. They should now have a consistent color theme for their web pages. Encourage them to stick with their palette going forward.

## 2.3 Layout
### Creating Blocks with <div> and <span>
In this section students are going to create colored blocks using ```<div>```. Students will position each block and see how a webpage flows. Each element is given a position based on when it shows up in a page.  
### Positioning with Float
Using float, students will learn how to bring objects out of the standard flow. This can be used to position images so that text flows around them. Also we will use float to make a grid of different color blocks. 
### Positioning with Flex
### Assignments

## 2.4 Boxes
### Box Dimensions
### Margins, Borders, and Padding
### Assignments

## 2.5 HTML5
### HTML5 Tags
### Styling HTML5
### Assignments
In this section students will make a portfolio site that will show the pages they have done so far. This will be a front page that will have navigation to each webpage they have made. The new front page will use HTML5 and be styled with CSS.

