# Unit 3: Libraries and Advanced Web

## 3.1 CSS Flexbox

### Learning Objectives
* Students can use Flexbox to layout web pages.
* Students can research features of CSS.
* Students understand increased levels of abstraction allow more complicated layouts with less code.
* Students can identify abstractions such as grow-to-fit and relative sizing. 

### Flexbox Simple Sample
Students should make new files *index.html* and *style.css* in their own new 3.1_Flexbox folder.  
#### Make a Sample HTML
Students create a sample HTML file they will use to style with flexbox. The walk through starts with an empty HTML file then fills the sections with randomly generated text and placeholder images. There are many sites that provide sample content. Here are the ones we used in the previous unit:
* [Random Text Generator](http://www.randomtextgenerator.com/)
* [Placeholder](https://placeholder.com/)
Have students look up the ```<article>``` and ```<section>``` tags. 
```html
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html>
<head>
<title>Flex Simple Sample</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="style.css"> 
</head>
<body>
<header><h1>Flexbox Simple Sample</h1></header>
<section>
  <article>
    <h2>First Article</h2>
    <p>. . . . . . . . . . random text . . . . . . . . . . </p>
  </article>
  <article>
    <h2>Second Article</h2>
    <p>. . . . . . . . . . random text . . . . . . . . . . </p>
  </article>
  <article>
    <h2>Third Article</h2>
    <p>. . . . . . . . . . random text . . . . . . . . . . </p>
  </article>
</section>
</body>
</html>
```
#### Make a Sample CSS
Students make a sample CSS file. Students should create the CSS file shown. Then once they have saved both their HTML and CSS files have them open *index.html* in their browser.
```css
body {
    font-family: sans-serif;
}
header {
    background: navy;
    height: 100px;
    color: white;
}
h1 {
    text-align: center;
    line-height: 100px;
}
article {
    padding: 10px;
    margin: 10px;
    background: lightblue;
}
```
#### Create Flex Container
Students add flexbox containers to their files. The following CSS rule added to the end of the CSS file will make the section into a flex container.
```css
section {
    display: flex;
}
```
Have students save and reload their files. Now the random text should be arranged in a row instead of vertically. 
#### Documentation
Students should have a new *index.html* and *style.css* file to share.

### Flexbox Terminology
#### Containers and Items
Review the vocabulary of **items** and **containers**, emphasizing that items go in containers. Take time to review the image at the start of the lesson. Here are some good flexbox references:
* [A Complete Guide to Flexbox](https://css-tricks.com/snippets/css/a-guide-to-flexbox/)
* [W3Schools CSS Flexbox](https://www.w3schools.com/css/css3_flexbox.asp)
* [Basic concepts of flexbox](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_Flexible_Box_Layout/Basic_Concepts_of_Flexbox)

#### Container Properties
Have students look up the listed properties and write down the purpose of each property.

Property | Purpose
-|-
display | set to flex, creates a flexbox container
flex-direction | tells the items which way to go
flex-wrap | allow items to wrap to the next line
flex-flow | set both direction and wrap
justify-content | align flex items horizontally
align-items | align flex items vertically
align-content | aligns multiple lines of flex items


#### Item Properties
Have students look up the listed properties and write down the purpose of each property.

|Property | Purpose
|-|-
|order| set the order of flexbox item
|flex-grow | set the amount a flex item is allowed to grow 
|flex-shrink | set the ability of a flex item to shrink
|flex-basis | set the size of an element before using remaining space
|flex | shortcut for specifying flex-grow, flex-shrink and flex-basis
|align-self | change alignment of a single item

#### Example on Codepen
This codepen is a good one to review as a class. As a class or in small groups have students explain what every element in the HTML and CSS do. Here are the parts to review.
##### HTML
The HTML in this codepen is only enough to illustrate some flexbox principles. 
```html
<section>
  <article id="one"><p>I</p></article>
  <article id="two"><p>II</p></article>
  <article id="three"><p>III</p></article>  
</section>
``` 
This creates a single section with three articles inside. The HTML5 ```<article>``` and ```<section>``` elements act like named ```<div>``` elements.
##### CSS
The CSS for this codepen styles all the elements. Take time to go through each line and discuss as a class or in small groups what each line does. Have students locate flexbox lines. Flexbox lines are identified here with comments.
```css
section {
  display: flex; /* Create the top level flex container */
  background: lightgrey;
  padding: 10px 10px 10px 10px; 
}
article {
  background: maroon;
  height: 100px;
  margin: 10px;
  display: flex; /* Create flex container inside flex item */
  justify-content: center; /* Center content horizontally */
  align-items: center; /* Center content vertically */
}
#one {
  order: 1; /* Set order of item */
  flex-grow: 1; /* Set size of item */
}
#two {
  order: 2; /* Set order of item */
  flex-grow: 2; /* Set size of item */
}
#three {
  order: 3; /* Set order of item */
  flex-grow: 1; /* Set size of item */
}
p {
  margin: 0px;
  padding: 0px;
  font-size: 36px;
  color: white;
}
```
Note that both ```section``` and ```article``` are styled as flexbox containers. This means that while the ```section``` is a flexbox container, the ```article``` is both a flexbox item inside the ```section``` and a flexbox container. The individual ```p``` elements are items inside each ```article``` container.

#### Documentation
Research and figure out how to perform the following modifications to the codepen. 

1. How do you change the order? 
    * Modify the order number in the rules for ```#one```, ```#two``` and ```#three```. 
    * Have students create 3 different orders.
2. How do you change the size?
    * Modify the flex-grow number in the rules for #one, #two and #three. The height can be changed by modifying ```height``` in the ```article``` rule.
    * Have students create 3 different sizings.
3. How do you make the flexbox container order the items vertically?
    * Add ```flex-direction: column``` to the ```section``` rule.

### Applying Flexbox
#### *index.html* 
```html
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html>
<head>
<title>Flex Simple Sample</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="style.css"> 
</head>
<body>
<header><h1>Flexbox Simple Sample</h1></header>
<section>
  <article>
    <h2>First Article</h2>
    <p>. . . . . . . . . . random text . . . . . . . . . . </p>
  </article>
  <article>
    <h2>Second Article</h2>
    <p>. . . . . . . . . . random text . . . . . . . . . . </p>
  </article>
  <article>
    <h2>Third Article</h2>
    <p>. . . . . . . . . . random text . . . . . . . . . . </p>
  </article>
</section>
</body>
</html>
```
##### *style.css*
```css
body {
    font-family: sans-serif;
}
header {
    background: navy;
    height: 100px;
    color: white;
}
h1 {
    text-align: center;
    line-height: 100px;
}
article {
    padding: 10px;
    margin: 10px;
    background: lightblue;
}
```
#### Adding More Flex
Students will add the following features using flexbox:

* Three images above the articles
* Even spacing of articles 
* Sidebar
* Footer

#### Create a Container for Images

#### Even Spacing
#### Flex Shorthand
#### Add a Sidebar
#### Documentation 

### Assignments
1. Implement a Wire-frame with Flexbox
2. Challenge: Bar graph

## 3.2 CSS Grid
### Learning Objectives
* Students can use CSS Grid to layout web pages.
* Students can research features of CSS.
* Students understand increased levels of abstraction allow more complicated layouts with less code.
* Students can identify abstractions such as grid areas, grid tracks, and fractional.


CSS Grid allows designers to create responsive layouts easily using just CSS. Responsive layouts are webpages that resize depending on the size of the screen used to view them. Devices ranging from smartwatches to large monitors need to be able to view your sites. In this unit students will learn to create responsive websites.  

#### Sample Grid
Explore the codepen 
#### Grid Basics
#### Spanning Columns
#### Grid Template
#### Responsive Behavior
#### Assignments
Students will use CSS grid to make their own sample responsive grid. 
## 3.3 Bootstrap
### Assignments